# 2026-01-07 Transports WG (Weekly)

## TL;DR
The Transport Working Group held a structured retrospective using a card-based
voting system to prioritize discussion topics. Key outcomes included a decision
to secure high-level directional agreement with core maintainers before detailed
implementation, a consensus to converge on single proposals within the working
group to minimize noise, and a move toward using a dedicated GitHub repository
combined with Google Docs for technical discussions.

## Detailed Summary

### Retrospective Process
Larry Maccherone facilitated a "Start/Stop/Continue" style retrospective, where
participants wrote cards, grouped them, and voted to prioritize the discussion
agenda. This process surfaced four primary topics for the group to address.

### Core Maintainer Engagement & Feedback
The group discussed the need for earlier, lighter-weight feedback loops with
core maintainers rather than waiting to present fully fleshed-out proposals.
* **High-Level Alignment First:** Participants noted that the recent San
  Francisco meeting successfully broke a "logjam" by allowing for alignment on
  high-level direction before implementation details were solidified.
* **Avoid "Phone Books":** The group agreed that presenting massive "phone book
  sized" proposals without prior alignment leads to excessive questioning and
  wheel-spinning; "slicing" topics into high-level goals first is more
  effective.

### Minimizing Competing Proposals
* **Convergence:** There was a strong consensus that the working group should
  strive to converge on a single, unified proposal before seeking endorsement
  from core maintainers.
* **Unified Front:** While individual maintainers can technically sponsor
  independent SCPs, the group agreed that achieving internal consensus first
  ("blessing" a proposal) would increase the likelihood of acceptance and reduce
  confusion.

### Location for Technical Discussions
The group debated the best venue for technical discussions, noting that
fragmentation across Discord, Google Docs, and GitHub is currently inefficient.
* **Discord:** There was general consensus that Discord is not the preferred
  place for deep technical discussions due to low adoption in corporate
  contexts.
* **Hybrid Workflow:** A hybrid approach is preferredâ€”using **Google Docs** for
  rapid, early-stage iteration and **GitHub** (PRs/Issues) for the official
  record, history, and discoverability.
* **Dedicated Repo:** There was strong interest in establishing a dedicated
  repository for the Working Group to centralize these discussions.

### Roadmap Structure & Visibility
* **Sequencing:** Participants discussed the need for better sequencing and
  visibility of the overall MCP roadmap, specifically to understand how
  transport changes interact with other simultaneous initiatives (like Tasks).
* **Transparency:** There was a request for more transparency regarding core
  maintainer strategy and active work streams to prevent negative overlaps
  between working groups.

## Action Items
- [ ] **Kurtis Van Gent:** Consult with Basil Hosmer and Peter Alexander
  regarding the creation of a dedicated GitHub repository for the Working Group.
- [ ] **Kurtis Van Gent:** Draft a proposal for the "rules of engagement"
  regarding technical discussions (defining the workflow between Google Docs and
  GitHub) based on the poll results for the next meeting.
- [ ] **Peter Alexander & Basil Hosmer:** Bring the request for greater
  visibility into core maintainer strategy and outputs back to the core team.